Style Guide and Diataxis Review: Identity III (#718)
iotaledger/identity.rs: documentation/docs/verifiable_credentials/overview.md

---
title: Verifiable Credentials Overview
sidebar_label: Overview
description: Verifiable Credentials are statements about the holder. They can be verified online or in person and the holder decides who to share them with.
image: /img/Identity_icon.png
keywords:
- verifiable
- credentials
- person
- reference
---

> Credentials are statements about an entity, such as properties that the entity possesses or capabilities that they have, like a driver's license, a passport, or a someone's age. Verifiable Credentials (VCs) are statements, like someone having a driver's license, that can be cryptographically verified by a third party, either online or in person. The holder of the VC can then decide what is shared and who it is shared with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Credentials are statements about an entity, such as properties that the entity possesses or capabilities, like a driver's license, a passport, or someone's age. Verifiable Credentials (VCs) are statements that can be cryptographically verified by a third party, either online or in person, like someone having a driver's license. The holder of the VC can then decide what is shared and who to share it with.
```
or 
```suggestion
Credentials are statements about an entity, such as properties that the entity possesses or capabilities that they have, like a driver's license, a passport, or someone's age. Verifiable Credentials (VCs) are statements, like someone having a driver's license, that can be cryptographically verified by a third party, either online or in person. The holder of the VC can then decide what is shared and who it is shared with.
```

Author: 👌

> There are several types of actors that play different roles in a verifiable credential system. Starting with a common example of how things work today that you will find below, this article explains how physical credentials and centralized databases are used while outlining the roles that various entities play in the Verifiable Credential system.

Reviewer: I'd start the last sentence with `This article explains..` and end it with `starting with a common ...`

:::note Example - Passport Issuance

A government (the _Issuer_) issues a passport asserting citizenship (the _Verifiable Credential_) to Alice (the _Subject_ and _Holder_), and writes the information to a database (the _Verifiable Data Registry_). When crossing the border, Alice (the _Holder_) presents her passport to a border agent (the _Verifier_) who can verify that Alice (the _Subject_) is indeed a citizen.

:::

**Subject:** An entity about which claims are made – Alice (the _Subject_) is a citizen of this country.

> **Holder:** An entity which possesses verifiable credentials – Alice (the _Holder_) possesses the passport (the _VC_).

Reviewer 2: Consider "owns"

**Issuer:** An entity which asserts claims about a subject – The governing body (the _Issuer_), which is trusted, issues Alice a passport.

**Verifier:** An entity which checks if the VC a holder presents is legitimate – The border agent (the _Verifier_) trusts the government (the _Issuer_) which issued Alice her passport and validates that Alice (the _Subject_) is a citizen.

:::note

For more information, you can check out the [Verifiable Credentials Data Model 1.0 Specification page](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/).

:::

### Verifiable Credentials in IOTA

> In the IOTA Identity framework, instead of a physical passport being given to Alice with the passport information being written into a centralized database owned by the government (TW Note: I'm not sure if this phrase inside the commas is necessary), Alice receives a digitally verifiable credential and the information required for verification in the future is written to the Tangle.

Reviewer: I think it adds something by telling the user how the process changes.  That being said, I think the paragraph could use some rephrasing or restructuring.

The first step in the creation and verification of a VC is to create a verifiable credential. This requires the subject and issuer (Alice and the government, respectively) to have DIDs published to the Tangle with a set of statements being asserted (that Alice has a passport). The issuer signs the credential with their private key and publishes the public key to the Tangle. In the future, a proof can be used by the verifiers to validate the authenticity of the credentials using the issuer's public key.

After the credential is published to the Tangle, validations occur:
 

>  - by looking up the issuer's key on the Tangle. 

Reviewer: Shouldn't these bullet points need to be capitalized as they end with `.` ?

Author: Yep 👌

 - The holder proving ownership of their DID to the verifier (evidence). 

>  - Validating that the credential has been signed by the issuing party.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't really read like a sentence tbh. Also it is not clear to me who makes validation occur. "Anyone can verify the credentials by looking up the key, checking the holder's DID, and the signature of the issuing party".

"Validations occur by validating" is also kinda awkward.
